.TH Release95a 5 "20 March 1995" "Release95a"
.SH NAME
Release95a \- Release note for lclib/95a
.SH DESCRIPTION
All files are converted from 94a.  Libraries have same subroutines
with same functions ( except file I/O routines for TBS ),
but aplied new organization rules.  lclib/95a are organized
with the following rules.
.RS
.IP (1) 
Use lower case for file names.
.IP (2) 
Use cpp ( C pre-processror ) for 
.C #include 
and conditional compiling.
.C =EXPAND 
to include files and remove function of build command, which 
is used in 94a, are now supplied by cpp.  Note that 
.C ==EXPAND 
function availabe in the build command is not available any more.
.IP (3) 
Re-organized the directories under 95a.
.RE
.SH "UTILITY COMMANDS"
To convert rograms written under 94a rules several commands are
prepared.  They are in 95a/bin.  Their names and functions are as follows.
.RS
.TP 
.IB rn_lclib
Change file names of 
.C .f 
and 
.C .inc 
type to lower case. Under score prefix of 
.C .inc 
file is removed.
.TP
.IB exp2inc
.C =EXPAND 
statement is replaced with  
.C #include 
statement, the remove statements for the build command 
with the statements for the conditional compiling.  
.C ==EXPAND 
is replced with 
.C #include 
file and 
.C C= 
lines in the EXPANDed file are appended below after removing 
.C C=
.  All 
.C .f 
files in the current directory are scanned
and results are written with 
.C .F 
type.  Note that th original files are not deleted automatically.
.TP 
.IB .rn_include
Rename file names in the INCLUDE statements of FORTRAN program.
.PP
.RE 0
For more details about these command, please 
put a directory, 
.C /proj/phys/lclib/95a/man
in your
.C MANPATH
and consult with man files in 
95a. If you want to create a postscript file of man files
for print out, do
.RS
.C groff -Tps -man 
.IB
man_file
.C >
.IB 
man_file.ps
.RE

.SH cpp EXAMPLE
cpp is executed automatically, when file type is 
.C .F.
Example to use cpp is as follows.
Suppose we have a file, 
.C calc.F, 
whose content is as follows.

c       test program
.br
#include "data.inc"
         a = 1.
         b = 2
.br
#ifdef ADATA
         x = a
.br
#endif
.br
#ifdef BDATA
         x = b
.br
#endif
         print *,x
         stop
         end

Then, 
        f77 calc.F -DADATA -o calc 
        calc
.br
will print
.br
        1.

 On the otherhand,
.br
       f77 calc.F -DBDATA -o calc 
        calc
.br
will print
.br
        2.

Directory path for include file, say new/path for example, can be specified by

        f77 calc.F -Inew/path -o calc

For more details,  please refer to examples in 95a/examples.

.SH DIRECTORIES
Directory organization of 95a is as follows.
.RS 
.C 95a/doc  
documentations.
.br 
.C 95a/lib
Libraries ( libxxxx.a files )
.br
.C 95a/util
Utilities specific for lclib routines.
.br
.C 95a/gen
Generators and related utilities.
.br
.C 95a/bin
Utility commands.
.br
.C 95a/examples
Examples

.SH CHANGES
Main changes of lib files from 94a to 95a are as follows.
.IP + 
libGEN.a -> libGENUTIL.a
.IP +
libPROSTER.a, libMANAGER.a, libFULL.a -> merged to libLCFULL.a

TBS is also changed.  The default disk I/O  format is to use program
coded by C, though 94a uses FORTRAN read/write routine.
This will improve the data compatibility among different
vender machines. To read data written by old version program
specify TYPE(FORT) in input command; For example,
.br
    input file(input.data) type(fort)
.br


.SH "See Also"
rn_lclib(1), rn_include(1), exp2inc(1), lclib(5)

.SH Files
/proj/phys/lclib/95a/Release95a.ps

.SH Author
Akiya Miyamoto, Physics Department, KEK,
E\-mail:miyamoto@kekux1.kek.jp


       


       

